1 add existing demos (#2)
mantik-ai/tutorials: tutorials/user_guide.md

The tracking server is secured by username and password, see also the [security section](#security).

### Simple tracking

You can use all mlflow tracking functions with the mantik platform.

The command 

```python
import mantik

mantik.init_tracking()
```

reads environment variables ([see below](#required-passwords-and-environment-variables)), acquires an API token for secure communication with the tracking server and points mlflow to the remote tracking server that is part of the mantik platform.

The required environment variables are:
 - `MANTIK_USERNAME`
 - `MANTIK_PASSWORD`
 - `MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI`

After that, you can use [mlflow tracking commands](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html) in your scripts to configure what is tracked when you train your Machine Learning models.

### Artifacts

Besides parameters and metrics, also so-called artifacts can be logged. Artifacts can be any files. You are free to log any file like object with the 

```python
mlflow.log_artifact(...)
```

method.

Artifacts are accessible via the mlflow UI. In the backend, they are stored in a dedicated S3 bucket and secured via AWS Cognito.

## Compute backend service

> The compute backend service API can be used to seamlessly schedule jobs with UNICORE and automatically track Machine Learning jobs to the mantik platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compute backend service API can be used to seamlessly schedule jobs with UNICORE and automatically track machine learning jobs to the mantik platform.
```

We provide a client to interact with the service:

```python
import mantik

client = mantik.ComputeBackendClient(...)
```

We recommend that you set all your credentials as [environment variables](#required-passwords-and-environment-variables):
- `MANTIK_USERNAME`
- `MANTIK_PASSWORD`
- `MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI`

> - `MANTIK_UNICORE_USER`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MANTIK_UNICORE_USERNAME`
```

- `MANTIK_UNICORE_PROJECT`
- `MANTIK_UNICORE_PASSWORD`

and use

```python
import mantik

client = mantik.ComputeBackendClient.from_env()
```

> Note that in order for the tracking to work properly, the compute resources must be able to access the tracking URI. For JUWELS we have a whitelisted IP adress that points to the mantik platform so that compute nodes can reach the platform. 

Reviewer: Ich würde hier nicht unbedingt das mit der whitelisted IP erwähnen. Reicht ja, wenn du erwähnst, dass man die mantik Plattform von den compute nodes des FZJ erreichen kann.
```suggestion
**Note:** In order for the tracking to work properly, the compute resources must be able to access the tracking URI. In collaboration with JSC, their compute facilities (JUWELS, JURECA, JUSUF) allow access to the mantik platform from compute nodes.
```

Author: Gilt das wirklich auch für `JURECA` und `JUSUF`?

> The compute backend expects a certain directory format of the Machine Learning project you want to use. We basically follow [mlfllow conventions for mlprojects](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compute backend expects a certain directory format of the machine learning project you want to use. We basically follow [mlflow conventions for MLprojects](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html),
```

> all further conventions are described in the [mlproject section](#mlproject-setup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all further conventions are described in the [MLproject section](#mlproject-setup).
```

## Client usage

The client can be used to submit runs via our compute backend service to any resources that are accessible via UNICORE (e.g. JUWELS at JSC).

```python
import mantik

client = mantik.ComputeBackendClient.from_env()

response = client.submit_run(

>     experiment_id = <experiment id>,
>     mlproject_path = <path to mlproject directory>,
>     mlflow_parameters = <key value pairs for mlflow parameters and values>,
>     backend_config_path = <path to backend configuration file relative to mlproject_path>,
>     entry_point = <entry point of the mlproject>,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    experiment_id=<experiment id>,
    mlproject_path="<path to mlproject directory>",
    mlflow_parameters ={<key: value pairs for mlflow parameters and values>},
    backend_config_path="<path to backend configuration file relative to mlproject_path>",
    entry_point="<entry point of the mlproject>",
```

)
```

The arguments to the `submit_run` method are specified as follows:
 - `experiment_id`: Experiment ID under which to store the run and access it in the UI.

>  - `mlproject path`: Path to mlproject. For more information [see mlprojects section](#mlproject-setup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `mlproject path`: Path to MLproject. For more information [see MLprojects section](#mlproject-setup).
```

 - `mlflow_parameters`: Mapping of parameters and values handed over to mlproject. For more information [see here](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html#specifying-parameters).
 - `backend_config_path`: Path to the backend configuration file, relative to `mlproject_path`. For more information on the backend configuration see [backend configuration section](#backend-configuration). 

>  - `entry_point`: Entry point to run for the given mlproject. For more information [see here](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html#running-projects).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `entry_point`: Entry point to run for the given MLproject. For more information [see here](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html#running-projects).
```

The response contains experiment and run id, so that you can find your runs easily in the UI. 

## mlproject setup

> The mantik ComputeBackendClient expects a certain structure of you Machine Learning projects, that mainly follows the conventions for [mlflow projects](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html). The differences are described in more detail below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mantik.ComputeBackendClient` expects a certain structure of you machine learning projects that mainly follows the conventions for [mlflow projects](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html). The differences are described in more detail below:
```

 - We only support containerized projects.
 - An additional file for the compute backend configuration is needed.

>  - An apptainer (singularity) image must be present in the `mlproject` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - An Apptainer (Singularity) image must be present in the MLproject directory.
 
 _Note:_ Singularity CE (community edition) has been renamed to Apptainer.
```

### Running in containers

Since we must guarantee that all dependencies of the project are installed, we only support container-based projects.

The two possibilities to configure container-based projects with mantik are:

 - build a Docker image locally and reference it in the [mlflow Docker container environment](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html#project-docker-container-environments), or
 - directly build a singularity/apptainer image and reference it in the [backend configuration](#backend-configuration).

> Currently, you need a singularity or apptainer image locally that is send via the compute backend to HPC instances in order to run your code in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, you need an Apptainer image locally that is send via the compute backend to HPC instances in order to run your code in it.
```

For installation instructions, see [the apptainer documentation](https://apptainer.org/docs/admin/main/installation.html).

> Note: Singularity CE (community edition) has been renamed to apptainer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Docker

[mlflow offers the possibility to define Docker container environments for your mlproject](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html#project-docker-container-environments). We strongly suggest you to setup your projects in this way.

> If no singularity or apptainer image is available, the client is capable to automatically build an image from a Docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no Apptainer image is available, the client is capable to automatically build an image from a Docker image.
```
Ist er das?

Author: Das hatten wir doch mal gebaut, oder?

#### Singularity / Apptainer

> Singularity or apptainer images are stored directly in the directory they have been built in and can be sent like any other file. The `ComputeBackendClient` transfers the image to the compute resource provider (e.g. JUWELS) and triggers running the image via SLURM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apptainer images are stored directly in the directory they have been built in and can be sent like any other file. The `ComputeBackendClient` transfers the image to the compute resource provider (e.g. JUWELS) and triggers running the image via SLURM.
```

> For more information on apptainer images, [see the documentation](https://apptainer.org/docs/user/main/cli/apptainer_build.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on Apptainer images [see the documentation](https://apptainer.org/docs/user/main/cli/apptainer_build.html).
```

The usage of mantik platform requires several environment variables to be set on the client side.

For convenience we suggest you create an `environment.sh` file and execute

```bash
source environment.sh
```

to set all required environment variables as described below.

## Access to the mantik platform

Access to the mantik platform is granted by passing username and password. The backend will acquire an API token using those.

```bash
#!/bin/sh

export MANTIK_USERNAME=<user>
export MANTIK_PASSWORD=<password>
```
Users can be created by platform administrators. Upon first sign-in, a password reset is enforced. Each password must contain

 - at least eight characters,
 - at least one number,
 - at least one special character,
 - at least one lowercase letter, and
 - at least one uppercase letter.

## Tracking 

For `MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI` you can simply provide the base-url of the mantik platform, e.g.

```bash
export MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI=https://test.cloud.mantik.ai
```
The application code is able to construct the actual API URL from this.

## Access to a compute project

UNICORE uses username and password to authenticate users against the compute resource provider.

> For running on JUWELS, you will need JUDOOR account and access to a compute project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For running on JUWELS, you will need JuDoor account and access to a compute project.
```

The credentials for authentication as well as the accounting project are read
from the environment variables `MANTIK_UNICORE_USER`, `MANTIK_UNICORE_PASSWORD`,
and `MANTIK_UNICORE_PROJECT`, respectively. These need to be
set in the execution environment

```bash
export MANTIK_UNICORE_USERNAME=<user>
export MANTIK_UNICORE_PASSWORD=<pasword>
export MANTIK_UNICORE_PROJECT=<project name>
```

# Demo project

A fully functional demonstration is available [here](../demos/wine-quality-estimator).

# Security

The platform can only be accessed by known users who must provide username and 
password. It is secured via AWS Cognito. All API calls must include a JWT 
(JsonWebToken) to be granted access. This token is retrieved automatically when

> using `mantik.init_tracking()`or at `ComputeBackendClient`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using `mantik.init_tracking()` or at `ComputeBackendClient`
```

instantiation. Tokens are saved in `~/.mantik/tokens.json`.

All traffic is encrypted by SSL standard. Since UNICORE credentials must be 

> provided in the `ComputeBackendClient.submit_run`method, these are passed 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provided in the `ComputeBackendClient.submit_run` method, these are passed 
```

as HTTP form fields, which are automatically encrypted with SSL as well.

> For internal security on the Cloud we use AWS IAM user management and enforce 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For internal security in the cloud we use AWS IAM user management and enforce 
```

access to JUWELS, can be found
[here](https://www.fz-juelich.de/en/ias/jsc/services/user-support/jsc-software-tools/unicore)
and [here](https://fzj-unic.fz-juelich.de:9112/FZJ/rest/registries/default_registry).

# Required credentials and environment variables

The usage of mantik platform requires several environment variables to be set
on the client side.

For convenience we suggest you create an `environment.sh` file and execute

```bash
source environment.sh
```

to set all required environment variables as described below.

## Access to the mantik platform

Access to the mantik platform is granted by passing username and password. The
backend will acquire an API token using those.

```bash
#!/bin/sh

export MANTIK_USERNAME=<user>
export MANTIK_PASSWORD=<password>
```

Users can be created by platform administrators. Upon first sign-in, a password
reset is enforced. Each password must contain

 - at least eight characters,
 - at least one number,
 - at least one special character,
 - at least one lowercase letter, and
 - at least one uppercase letter.

## Tracking 

For `MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI` you can simply provide the base-url of the mantik
platform, e.g.

```bash

> export MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI=https://test.cloud.mantik.ai

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI=https://cloud.mantik.ai
```
